First draft of october newsletter (#1110)
writethedocs/www: docs/blog/newsletter-october-2019.rst

.. post:: October 04, 2019
   :tags: newsletter

########################################
Write the Docs Newsletter – October 2019
########################################

Hi, everyone, and welcome back to the newsletter after our summer break!

Top news this month is our salary survey. It can be tough to work out what "normal" pay is, so Write the Docs is carrying out a `salary survey </surveys/salary-survey-sep-2019/>`__ to try to get some answers. The survey is open until 31st October, and we'll be publishing the anonymized data for free. Help the community and `fill it out here <https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/wtd-salary-2019>`__!

> On the events side, I thoroughly enjoyed meeting so many of you at the Prague conference! If you missed it, don't despair, because `all the talks are now up on YouTube <https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZAeFn6dfHpkpYchP1iFnQnc7i-2xJd0I>`__ for your perusal. Plus there's one last conference to look forward to this year: we've announced the `speakers and schedule </conf/australia/2019/news/announcing-speakers/>`__ for Write the Docs Australia, coming up in November. 

Reviewer: Do we know the dates for the Australia conference? May as well drop them in here, right?

Author: good idea, will add!

> On the events side, I thoroughly enjoyed meeting so many of you at the Prague conference! If you missed it, don't despair, because `all the talks are now up on YouTube <https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZAeFn6dfHpkpYchP1iFnQnc7i-2xJd0I>`__ for your perusal. Plus there's one last conference to look forward to this year: we've announced the `speakers and schedule </conf/australia/2019/news/announcing-speakers/>`__ for Write the Docs Australia, coming up in November. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the events side, I thoroughly enjoyed meeting so many of you at the Prague conference! If you missed it, don't despair, because `all the talks are now up on YouTube <https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZAeFn6dfHpkpYchP1iFnQnc7i-2xJd0I>`__ for your enjoyment. Plus there's one last conference to look forward to this year: we've announced the `speakers and schedule </conf/australia/2019/news/announcing-speakers/>`__ for Write the Docs Australia, coming up in November. 
```

Reviewer 2: Feels like a 'slightly' odd use of perusal, but I'm happy to be overrruled.

So that's all the news! On to the latest and greatest stories gathered from Slack.

-------------------------------------------------
Behind the scenes with fonts, emojis, and Unicode
-------------------------------------------------

> This month, a question about icons and fonts gave us a goldmine of information about emojis and unicode. Here are a few interesting facts:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This month, a question about icons and fonts provided a goldmine of information about emojis and unicode, including such gems as:
```

(happy to be over ruled on this one also)

> * The "key" underneath all fonts is Unicode. Fonts just provide glyphs for the underlying Unicode values - and different fonts can have different glyphs for the same Unicode.

Reviewer 2: Do we wanna link Unicode here? Even just to wikipedia?

Author: yeah, good shout

* Talk to product managers, subject matter experts, and customer support. These roles may have more information about the users' requirements.
* Establish some clear, short-term deliverables for your work, to get some early wins and regain confidence.
* Remember that you took time to learn the things you already know, so don't feel discouraged when you feel like you can't grasp new material instantly. This work is difficult! Step-by-step, you'll eventually understand the product and get the knowledge you need.
* Make a list of skills and knowledge that you feel you're missing, and then work out what you'd need to do to fill the gaps. Or, make a list of specific, concrete things you want to achieve, have achieved, expect to achieve. Involve your manager so you can turn them into actionable goals. Success is a work in progress.

  If you're interested in setting clear actionable objectives to improve your performance, check out the `SMART criteria <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SMART_criteria>`_.

-------------------------------------------------------
Leading and following: finding a mentor, being a mentor
-------------------------------------------------------

> Another great way to build both your confidence and your abilities is to find a mentor, as we discussed recently in  `#career-advice`. General agreement that having a mentor is A Very Good Idea led to some handy info:

Reviewer: I love the caps here. 💯

* In the UK, the ISTC has a lightweight `mentoring program <https://www.istc.org.uk/professional-development-and-recognition/mentoring-scheme/>`__. One program participant explained that there aren't many guidelines, so they set up a development plan with their mentee and gave feedback on the mentee's CV.
* It can help to draft a development plan to show to a potential mentor, so they know what you're looking for. For ideas, see the ISTC's `Example CPD Records <https://www.istc.org.uk/professional-development-and-recognition/continuing-professional-development/example-cpd-records/>`_.
* Some companies provide formal mentoring programs: people who want to mentor sign up and describe their expertise, and you contact them if you want to be mentored. These programs typically provide internal resources for mentors and mentees as well.
* A useful article: `How to Email a Potential Mentor the Right Way <https://www.themuse.com/advice/be-my-mentor-craft-the-perfect-email-to-someone-you-admire>`__.

> A couple of contributors suggested that WTD start its own mentoring program, which sounds like an idea we'd love someone to take on! And if this topic captures your interest, see Arran Southall's talk from Prague this year, `Fostering Talent: Mentorship, Peer Reviews and Going Beyond Your Job Description <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rom6UW-TjNc&list=PLZAeFn6dfHpkpYchP1iFnQnc7i-2xJd0I&index=18>`__.

Reviewer: Should we put here that they should hop into #meta to talk about that or something?

Author: good idea, will add!

> (Side note: One *could* argue that we shouldn't use the term "mentee". Classically speaking, the right word for someone being guided by a Mentor is, of course, a "`Telemachus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mentor_(Odyssey)#Mentor_as_term>`__".)

Author: I hope this should be obviously tongue-in-cheek, but please let me know if it doesn't come across that way!

Reviewer: I think it comes across that way fine -- this is certainly the audience for it. 😉

-------------------------

> Deciding on a new tool...

Reviewer: Should we point out the #doc-tools channel in one of these two?

Author: good idea, will add!

-------------------------

> If you're struggling with the limitations of your docs tools, how do you decide what system to migrate to? In a recent coversation about trying to replace a creaky CMS, documentarians on Slack compared MadCap Flare, Paligo, Static Site Generators and Adobe Suite, among others.

Reviewer: This is nitpicky, but should static site generators be lowercase?

Author: yep, agreed!

Reviewer 2: maybe remove 'creaky' for non native speakers?

There was some consensus around establishing your specific business requirements before selecting a tool. What outputs do you need to publish? How much do you need to reuse content? Does OS compatibility matter? How long will migration take? The requirements matter because no single tool is right for all situations. If you understand your needs well, it'll really help - you might even realise that you don't need to switch.

Separating features into must-haves and nice-to-haves makes evaluating tools easier. Take care not to get side-tracked by features that don't address an actual need you have! Someone posted a useful `list of features <http://lauriston.com/requirements_sanitized.pdf>`__ to use as a starting point for your own evaluation.

> There are many tools out there, and no one size fits all; make sure you know what you need before picking one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are many tools out there, and no one size fits all; make sure you know what you need before picking one. Feel free to discuss tool related issues in #doc-tools on slack.
```
